# Data-Science-Agent

## Description

The Data-Science-Agent is a Python-based agent designed to analyse datasets, generate insights, and produce visualizations. It leverages various data science libraries and tools to facilitate data exploration.

## Setup Instructions
This project uses `uv` for dependency management. To set up the project, follow these steps:
1. **Install `uv`**: If you haven't already, install `uv` by following the instructions on the [uv GitHub repository](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv)
2. **Clone the Repository**: Clone this repository to your local machine.
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Elsper01/data-science-agent.git
    cd data-science-agent
    ```
3. **Install Dependencies**: Use `uv` to create a new virtual environment and install the project dependencies.
    ```bash
    uv venv
    touch ./.venv/Scripts/activate
    uv pip install -e .
    ```
4. **Run the Agent**: Create a `.env` file and add your open-router / open-ai key.
    ```bash
    touch .env
    python agent.py
    ```
   
5. **Run Jupyter Notebooks**: Run and edit Jupyter Notebooks in the repo with `uv`.
    ```bash
    uv run --with jupyter jupyter lab
    ```
   The prompeted URL and token can be used to access the Jupyter Lab interface in your web browser or added in your IDE as external server.
    

## Project Structure

````
my-project/
├── data/
│   └── ...
├── dtos/
│   └── ...
├── notebooks/
│   └── ...
├── output/
│   └── ...
└── agent.py
├── pyproject.toml
├── README.md
└── uv.lock
````

- `data/`: Directory for storing datasets and data-related files. 
- `dtos/`: Directory for Data Transfer Objects (DTOs) used in the project.
- `notebooks/`: Jupyter notebooks for experimentation and analysis.
- `output/`: Directory for storing output files generated by the agent.
- `agent.py`: Main script for the Data-Science-Agent functionality.
- `pyproject.toml`: Configuration file for the Python project, specifying dependencies and settings.
- `uv.lock`: Lock file for managing project dependencies.
